# Implant-Fibrotic-Capsule
Adhesive implant interfaces prevent fibrosis by disrupting  mechanobiological feedback


Running the simulations using the three-dimensional computational model

Steps to run the simulation for the adhesive implant are provided here. Running the simulation for the non-adhesive implant follows the same procedure.

Prerequisites:

Ensure you have the following software installed and linked:

- Abaqus
- Visual Studio
- Intel Parallel Studio XE
(Please note that the compatible versions of Visual Studio and Intel Fortran should be installed and Abaqus should be properly linked with Fortran)

Instructions:

1. Download and extract the Simulations folder: After downloading the Simulations folder, extract its contents to a directory of your choice.

2. Open Windows command prompt: Open the Windows command prompt by either opening the Start menu and searching for "cmd" or pressing the Windows key + R, typing "cmd" or "cmd.exe" in the Run command box, and pressing Enter.

3. Navigate to the simulation folder: Use the command prompt to navigate to the drive and the path where you extracted the Simulations folder. For example:

C:
cd path\to\the\simulation\folder

4. Run Abaqus simulation: Execute the "Adhesive.inp" from the command prompt:

abaqus job=Adhesive user=CellMatrixModel_20241204

The "Adhesive.inp" file is the input file for the simulation of the adhesive implant. Please note that the file "CellMatrixModel_20241204.for" contains a user subroutine UMAT code. Each section of the UMAT code is explained with annotations for clarity and ease of understanding.

5. Verify simulation completion: Check the last line in the "Adhesive.log" file to ensure the Abaqus job "Adhesive" is completed.

6. Open simulation results in Abaqus: Open the "Adhesive.odb" file generated by the simulation.

7. Adjust visualization settings to plot the maximum principal stress (cell alignment):
- From the Results Tree on the left, navigate to Output Databases > Adhesive.odb > Instances
- From the Menu bar, navigate to Plot > Symbols > On Deformed shape
- Navigate to Results > Field Output > Primary Variable > S (Stress components at integration points > Max. Principal > OK
- Enable the translucency to have the actin fibers plot within the cytoskeleton (From Options > Common > Other > Translucency)

8. Adjust visualization settings to plot the mean contractility (cell activation):
- From the Results Tree on the left, navigate to Output Databases > Adhesive.odb > Instances
- From the Menu bar, navigate to Plot > Contours > On Deformed shape
- Navigate to Results > Field Output > Primary Variable > SDV64 (Solution dependent state variables at integration points) > OK

9. Adjust visualization settings to plot the tension:
- From the Results Tree on the left, navigate to Output Databases > Adhesive.odb > Instances
- From the Menu bar, navigate to Plot > Contours > On Deformed shape
- Navigate to Results > Field Output > Primary Variable > S (Stress components at integration points) > Max. Principal > OK

Files Included:

- Adhesive.inp: Abaqus input file for the adhesive implant.
- NonAdhesive.inp: Abaqus input file for the nonadhesive implant.
- CellMatrixModel_20241204.for: User subroutine UMAT code based on the theoretical model to define cell material properties.
